# README
# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?]
Writing maintainable, readable, and adaptable code is kind of simple when you really think about it. By using variables and naming conventions that are plain to realize what they represent, in line comments, and specific modules and methods with a specific purpose are a few things that I think about when beginning a project. It's maintainable because it's easier to fix bugs, add new features, or make imporvements without causing any issues. An advantage of the readability is that it creates an understanding for the developer to not have to try and break down potential problems that are not there. It's adaptable because changes and updates can be implemented in an organized manner. I plan to use these methods in the future by continuously learning on best practices and standards, reviewing code whether it be my own or my colleages, and applying what I learn to programs that I write.
# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
I approach problems as a computer scientist the same way that I approach most problems in life. I first need to understand the problem, gather information, analyze the information, design a solution for the problem, begin to code the solution, test the solution as I build it, debug any issues that arise while writing the program, and document throughout the course of the project. My approach to this project reallyt wasn't much different than how I have treated other projects in different courses. I have project management experience throughout my different career paths, and I have learned from those that you must have some standard operating procedures when it comes to different projects. There are always variables that are thrown into a project, but there are always things that can be done the same way. I feel like now that I have some standard processes for completing a project; I will continue to build on those and become a better programmer. I can't wait for an opportunity to apply some of these SOP's in a team setting.
# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
There is an extremely long list of what computer scientists do, but our primary responsibilities are working on different tasks that contribute to the development and advancement of technology. We work on things like software development, AI and machine learning, data analysis, cybersecurity, database management, networking, computer graphics, game development, and many more! What we do matters because it impacts so much of the technology that runs the world. Computer scientists help to contribute to the ongoing advancements in technology by applying our innovation, problem solving skills, and automation to the world. My work on a project like this for Grazioso Salvare helps them to do their work better by giving them an option to easily find the animals that they are looking for by the click of a button instead of trying to look through thousands of lines in a spreadsheet or using an excel workbook to filter through the data. This program provides the company the option to filter by specific criteria, select an animal from the list that fits their needs, and find exactly where the animal is on a map. Essentially, computer scientists make everyone elses lives significantly easier!
